 # Council Meeting Notes March 01, 2022

 Community Council (CC) meeting held @ 15 UTC in grincoin#general channel on Keybase. Meeting lasted 60 min. Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

<br/>

### _Community attendance:_

* __anynomous__
* __dtavarez__
* __yeastplume__
* __cekickafa__
* __defistaker__
* __jankie1800__ 

</br>

# Agenda Points & Decision

- Provide more exposure to Bisq and other exchanges
- Overview on Grin CC github page and web site
- Bounties for training videos on Bisq and Tradeogre
- Discuss request for funding Groundskeeper @jankie / Mar-May 2022

## Decisions

* Last meeting notes [here](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/blob/main/notes/15-02-2022-council-meeting-notes.md)
* Current meeting [agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/40)


</br>

## 1) Provide more exposure to Bisq and other exchanges

__anynomous__ : Ok, for todays first agenda point: 

1) Provide more exposure to Bisq and other exchanges - https://forum.grin.mw/t/trade-volume-of-grin-on-bisq/9620/11

__anynomous__ : We had quite a bit of discussion as you all can see on the forum link. Basically Bisq is still underexposed, but to generalize the problem, it is still quite hard to find information on which exchanges are active, what their ups and downs are.
 * __jankie1800__ : I've been looking and it has an issue with low liquidity.. I've seen community addressing but really need to get a market maker in there
 * __anynomous__ : I think part of the problem is that the market makers are not much active on the forum, they can be more easily found on Discord and Telegram. So these people probably did not get much exposure/information on Bisq adding support for BTC-Grin again.
 
__cekickafa__ : i have the list of working exchanges.only gate.io and tradeogre function. bitforex is unknown. rest is all wallets closed and bitforex uses https.
03-01-2022-c
 * __anynomous__ : So basically TO, Bisq and gate.io (with exception of EU customers) are the only options that allow withdrawal. 

__anynomous__ : Ok, so solutions:
<br>
1) Put a list of those exchanges on github, link to it on the CC website
2) Put a bounty for people to make video tutorials for trading on all of these exchanges (no discrimination, all exchanges welcome).
</br>

__anynomous__ : At least I think the second solution could be useful and only spend some minor amounts of Grin. What do you all think, would bounties for video tutorials fit with the objective of the Grin Community Council?
 :+1: (__jankie1800__)
  * __defistaker__ : It sure fits IMO

</br>

## 2) Overview on Grin CC github page and web site

__dtavarez__ : I suggest to remove the inactive projects and have more and better documentation of what is actually presented. __@defistaker__ what do we need to deploy the website?
 * __defistaker__ : If you can give me a green light, I can deploy it to a VPS.

__anynomous__ : I looked at the website, it is ready to be deployed, so yes, its time to go lifeðŸŽ‰ 

__defistaker__ : All the compiled html is here, https://github.com/stakervali/stakervali.github.io

__anynomous__ : ðŸ’šðŸ’¡ (sorry no green light emoticon). 
 * __defistaker__ : I will setup and deploy tonight.

 </br>
 
## 3) Bounties for training videos on Bisq and Tradeogre

__anynomous__ : In my opinion as Community Council we should do more of these activities that involve minor amounts of funds,  but which are actually very useful for Grin users in general, having video tutorials for exchanges, wallets etc.

__defistaker__ : It has been discussed here https://stakervali.github.io/meetings/july-20-2021#issue_5
 * __anynomous__ : I see, I think we actually never voted on it and did not put a bounty post on the forum. So that is a mistake of the CC, or did we put a bounty and I forgot.....ðŸ˜…
 
__dtavarez__ : I rather suggest to let community members to create the content and suggest the bounty, it would be healthier.
 * __anynomous__ : That would be fine, we can just start with a discussion on the forum and take it from there.
 
__dtavarez__ : like dogo did with mw.social; donations were sent after making a first move
 * __anynomous__ : True, but I do think that this should not be donation based, but bounty based. So we can discuss what users find a fair bounty, but I think we should settle on the amounts before asking people to contest/contribute videos.
 * __dtavarez__ : I prefer to be focused on grow a community with proactive members, that's my position. If we can not generate enough interest that's another discussion
 * __cekickafa__ I bet you can't. telegram group about to fall below 1k.
 * __dtavarez__ : so be it. We can not do micro management to every initiative- my opinion 
 * __jankie1800__ : mwgrin-fr expressed interest for video contribs- easy enough to ask if still interested. allow them to express what their time is worth may set a nice baseline for future work
 
__dtavarez__ : countries are lifting restrictions, that means probably we could start with in-person meetings this year

__anynomous__ : 
> @__dtavarez__"I prefer to be focused on grow a community with proactive members, that's my position" 
 
__anynomous__  : This is really depending on how you interpret bounties. I think you interpret them as payment. I interpret them as tokens of appreciation, recognition and in a way a game/challenge. Like in most crypto projects small bounties are used for fun activities that in no way resemble the amount of time put in by users. So I think it is wrong to see small bounties for fun activities as payment, they are playmoney and are in their day to day value in no way comparable to wages which are 10-100X of the values that you often give as bounties. It is like going to a local fair and winning a medal.
 * __dtavarez__ : that's true; but we openly expresses that we are willing to support these kind of actions anyways
 * __jankie1800__ : no reason not to run both- have a bounty section advertised but if someone is a "professional" then why turn them away for doing good work and allow them to request further funding
 * __anynomous__ : True, free, small bounty, or paid for really good work, we can use it all.
 * __dtavarez__ : I agree. I am just saying that it is more healthy to have pro-active individuals involved in the community
 * __anynomous__ : point taken
 
__cekicka__ : out of agenda but. what happened to atomicswap bounty? any info? I mean is it done?
 * __anynomous__ : Maybe someone on the OC knows about the status. E.g. @tromp was heavily involved in the review process of gene's atomic swap implementation.
 * __yeastplume__ : pibd mostly and coinjoin in the background are mostly what's going on at the moment, haven't heard anything about atomic swaps for a while
 :+1:(__anynomous__, __cekickafa__, __dtavarez__)

__anynomous__ : Just to conclude the agenda topic of bounties, we will start (TO DO) the discussion on the forum and see if bounties are needed and as such what amounts would be valid tokens of appreciation.

</br>

## 4) Request for funding Groundskeeper @jankie / Mar-May 2022
https://forum.grin.mw/t/request-for-funding-groundskeeper-jankie-mar-may-2022/9623

__anynomous__ : Since the post is fresh of the press (today), we will not vote on it today, but we can already discuss Jankie's work in the last period and feedback on the Funding Request.
* __jankie1800__ : here to answer questions, comments concerns :)
 
__dtavarez__ : I'm a bit confused between the responsibilities between you and @defistaker  would you mind to explain a bit better? 
 * __jankie1800__ : sure, Mr.Staker has been to my understanding running with a focused task on building out the GrinCC website- while I have been running with other described activities from the councils discretion
 * __dtavarez__ : who is releasing the newsletter and who is doing the meeting notes?
 * __defistaker__ : Since january 2022, we have divided tasks. jankie is handling  newsletter and compiling meeting notes himself. Before then, we were alternatively doing these tasks. Currently, I am managing agenda issues, and website. Jankie is handling newsletter and meeting notes on github.
 * __dtavarez__ : would it make sense if one handles the newsletter and the other the meeting notes?
 * __jankie1800__ : at this time I am able to work both newsletter and meeting notes without any burden

__dtavarez__ : when it says: "facilitate developer outreach initiative" what do you mean with that? and what have been achieved for instance?
 * __jankie1800__ : develper outreach is motivated to bring developers to the project, also bring dev eyes. There is a RUST jobs posting where grin is advertised to rust developers. Here individual developers also post contact info- I communicate and send project info to these points of contact. Also looking to expand to other developer contact points. There can be many different ways to find communication points with developers either through github contacts etc- but I am focusing on directing project information into talented developers at base
 * __dtavarez__ : do you have an example of this? correct me if I am wrong, you mean, that you are looking for contributors, is that what you mean? imo the results of the management of the newsletter and the meeting notes are clear, but the rest of the activities are not that much clear
 * __jankie1800__ : Contributors but specifically developers who specialize in rust. In the last Q I contacted over 40 devs on an individual basis with project information. The best illustration with examples is set out here in the progress update https://forum.grin.mw/t/jankie-progress-update-thread/9316/4.
 * __dtavarez__ : and what was the result of that?
 * __jankie1800__ : some people trickled into the keybase asking questions, also positive views expressed on the project through direct communication but often they had already been hired.. but these efforts bring eyes. Grin has a real and interesing history and value prop- communicating the project to developers is easy and the feedback is promising.
 * __anynomous__ : Do you have examples of developers that came in on Keybase to check out the project? I think I saw 1 or 2,  but I am not monitoring KeyBase all the time
 * __jankie1800__ : really nothing tangible- other than what you have noticed. That was during the intial push but I am looking to expand outside of reddit and into other dev channels
 
__anynomous__ : I get what David means, it is hard to track/see what the output of that has been, hence examples is the only way to 'measure' or get some idea of how useful the activity is. Does it take a lot of time? I mean at some point you have to weigh how much time it cost to what the output is.
 * __jankie1800__ : indeed it is hard unless a dev would sign on- My plan is to hand these people the wishlist/bounty and hope to assign a task on the spot to as better determine the outcome..No, the time wasn't bad- devs are giving their contact info out- it is just a copy pasta and then some back and fourth on a DM
 * __dtavarez__ : I would suggest maybe to expand this in the forum post :+1:(__jankie1800__, __anynomous__)
 * __anynomous__ : That might be useful, also to get some input from devs in the project what would work for them, which channels, which way of communicating.
 * __jankie1800__ : that would be very helpful indeed. especially expanding the initiative onto sites like lobste.rs that have requirements for signup

__anynomous__ : So among your tasks, which are the most time consuming ones?
 * __jankie1800__ : the item that takes the most time is the newsletter

__dtavarez__ : it says: "Work closely with CC,OC,ICâ€™s, and developers to identify new campaigns and opportunities.", do you have a recent example of that?
 * __jankie1800__ : a few meeting ago you asked for financial details. this task was then delegated to me from which I produced the required github documents. this would serve as an example 
 * __dtavarez__ : but it says: " to identify new campaigns and opportunities." what does that mean exactly?
 * __jankie1800__ : that is a felxible ask to point to items that may not otherwise have been delegated.. Need a list of bountes? Need a history of a roadmap write up, need financial documentation? these are new inititives and opportunites for task delegation. Could really be anything within reason. But that is why I coined the job as "Groundskeeper"
 * __dtavarez__ : I suggest to extend this conversion somewhere else like the forum. :+1:(__jankie1800__)
 
__dtavarez__ : my other concern with trying to reach developers is that there is not a "guarantee hiring", this could lead to confusion 
 * __jankie1800__ : The "hiring" is cleared up in the Job details as it states payment is bounty/task based
 * __anynomous__ : Ok, then it should be clear. For developers who we have no experience with this is also the least risky way of hiring them, since not output, no pay.
 * __jankie1800__ : right, there is no promise of a job only project information and invitation

__anynomous__ : Ok, keep a record/log of these activities. It makes it easier to handle such questions, basically copy paste, this is what I worked on on a flexible basis as groundkeeper. :+1:(__jankie1800__)

__anynomous__ : I think with that we can round of our meeting, unless there is anything anyone wants to add:?
 * __dtavarez__ : nothing from my side
 
__anynomous__ : O yes me, check this out: [ https://github.com/grincc/hub ] A lot of nice materials such as memes, marketing material and wallpapers has been added. If you have more cool Grin material, please send it to me or make a pull request. 

__anynomous__ : that is all I wanted to share. Thank you all for being here today, and hope to see you next time ðŸ˜Š ðŸ‘‹

</br>
 
## *Action Points*
</br>

* Follow up community bounties forum post discussion - see if bounties are needed and as such what amounts would be valid tokens of appreciation.

* GrinCC website green light to life

* Include updated exchange info on community website




