
# Community Meeting Notes May 09, 2023

Community Council (CC) meeting held @ 15:00 UTC in grincoin#general channel on Keybase. Meeting lasted 79  min.

Notes are truncated, and conversations sorted based on topic and not always chronological. Quotes are edited for brevity and clarity, and not always exact.

### _Community attendance:_

* anynomous
* defistaker
* cekickafa
* dtavarez
* ardocrat
* yeastplume
* mo5itoo
* vegycslol



# Short Summary
 
-  Checking and reviewing funded requests tasks by community and Grincc members and tracking by GK discussion is being held.
-  Publishing a refund request on forum pages for @satoshocrat due to missing work is agreed.
-  It has been proposed and is now being debated as an alternate method to the existing funding structure that CC funds could be used as Bounties in exchange for finished work.

# Agenda Points & Actions
 

* Last meeting notes here: https://github.com/grincc/agenda/tree/main/notes

* Current meeting [agenda](https://github.com/grincc/agenda/issues/87)







__dtavarez__ :1 minute. any question in regards of today's agenda? any comment before start?

__anynomous__ : No, we can start.

__dtavarez__ : cool. should be start with the To Do List? @defistaker any comment on adding telegram Link?
did you submit the PR?


__defistaker__ : link is added on grincc.mw

ðŸ‘ anonymous.


__dtavarez__ : good. @cekickafa I think you already submit the PR checking funded requests, right?

__cekickafa__ : yes, it is submitted.

__dtavarez__ : would you mind to paste the link here? is under review still right?

__cekickafa__ : https://github.com/cekickafa/docs-1/blob/main/funded_requests_progress.md  

Well, there is a couple PR to be reviewed.

__dtavarez__ : what exactly you need from the CC? would you mind to share what would needed to merge this?

__cekickafa__ : It would be good if i had access to github/doc for certain things.

__dtavarez__ : oh the thing is that in order to be merged, it is required to be reviewed by several people. I don't thing it will make a big difference

__ardocrat__ : Let me start, I suggested to pay from CC fund only for already done tasks related to grin marketing/development, as we have small budget and small progress here, we can not 

afford to sponsor full-time workers like it was done before. Grin has no revenue and we are not corporation to do this.

Idea is to create Github board with tasks and pay for results when they will be finished.

@cekickafa can manage this board, CC members can approve both tasks and payments.

__anynomous__ : Maybe we can make a subdirectory with different permissions

__cekickafa__ :

>__dtavarez__ : oh the thing is that in order to be merged, it is required to be reviewed by several people. I don't thing it will make a big difference

review and  cross checking is enough. It is quite transparent imo. If edit, or addition needed, can be done.

__dtavarez__ : then I think the suggestion should go into https://github.com/grincc/docs/blob/main/approval-scheme.md

the we could proceed.is that OK for you?

__cekickafa__ : Ok.

__dtavarez__ : cool.Feedback from community about adding/fixing social links to grin.mw site. @phyro can be that marked as done?

__cekickafa__ : Not really. Not much feedback to reach a conclusion.

__anynomous__ : Yes, it was discussed on the forum:

https://forum.grin.mw/t/updating-the-grin-mw-page/10463/4

__dtavarez__ : cool we skip that then should we? for now

__anynomous__ : There was a pull request, not merged yet: 

https://github.com/mimblewimble/site/pull/261




__dtavarez__ : the we can continue


__anynomous__ : i think we can mark it as done, it only needs reviewing.

__dtavarez__ : I would suggest to mark it as donde after merging to avoid confusions but I'm Ok either way since merging it is out from the CC duties

__anynomous__ : Also fine

__dtavarez__ : and we don't have access to do it anyways

__anynomous__ : We can leave it for now.




### ToDo: Contact @satoshocrat about GK tasks and Vote within GRINCC for refund

__dtavarez__ : cool, @satoshocrat was asked several times to join conversation

__ardocrat__ : 

>__ardocrat__ : Let me start, I suggested to pay from CC fund only for already done tasks related to grin marketing/development, as we have small budget and small progress here, we can not afford to sponsor full-time workers like it was done before. Grin has no revenue and we are not corporation to do this.

Replace fund requests with bounties. Payments should be done after work, not before, cause we should make sure work is done, does not matter in what time.

__anynomous__ : I encouraged him to give feedback in the forum discussions via private message, @dtavarez chatted with him and asked the same, @cekickafa I think also contacted him.

__dtavarez__ : no response from him

__anynomous__ : Unfortunately so. Both me and David had contact with him latest on March 23, after that, radio silence

__dtavarez__ : it seems to me that this will be his answer: no answer.sad

__anynomous__ : Indeed, a pity, In case he would have provided a reason or at least requested to compensate his work, I think that would have been fine. But since he did not take responsibility or even communicated about his problems, I think it is proper to ask him officially for a refund. At least, that is my opinion/vote.

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, dtavarez


__ardocrat__ :

>__ardocrat__ : Replace fund requests with bounties. Payments should be done after work, not before, cause we should make sure work is done, does not matter in what time.

Let me remind you, Grin is not place for scam, its all about trust :) With this type of funding we can be sure everyone can have identical rights to contribute and get rewarded without watching on their past. "Superstar", newbie or volunteer, it does not matter, only real work matters.

__mo5itoo__ : i'll also ask for a refund or at least join the conversation to give us responses

__dtavarez__ :

>__anynomous__ : Indeed, a pity, In case he would have provided a reason or at least requested to compensate his work, I think that would have been fine. But since he did not take responsibility or even communicated about his problems, I think it is proper to ask him officially for a refund. At least, that is my opinion/vote.

I think we can proceed

__anynomous__ :  @satoshocrat has a good reputation as a long standing grin community member who added something to the project, so his choice not to take responsibility is a real pity. But yes, in the end we all have to take responsibility for our actions, or lack there of.

__dtavarez__ : who will write the post then?

__anynomous__ : I can do so. I will write to him on the forum as well as in private mesage on Keybase, we can mark it as 
#TO DO, for the next meeting.

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, dtavarez

__dtavarez__ : cool. thanks @anynomous


__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ :  @satoshocrat has a good reputation as a long standing grin community member who added something to the project, so his choice not to take responsibility is a real pity. But yes, in the end we all have to take responsibility for our actions, or lack there of.

Lesson learned, now we can take action to avoid this in the future.

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, anonymous

__anynomous__ : All in favour of making this an official request to return funds for his latest funding period, thumbs up, those against, thumb down.

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, dtavarez, mo5itoo, angler1, ardocrat

__cekickafa__ : yes, draw a line. For future possibilities.

ðŸ‘ ardocrat, angler1, ðŸ’¯  anonymous

__anynomous__ : Community thumbs are also welcome. I would like to know this is also what the community wants

__dtavarez__ : I think enough time was given tbh I see no need to spend more time on the topic


__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ : All in favour of making this an official request to return funds for his latest funding period, thumbs up, those against, thumb down.

Official request is cool idea, but this is internet.. We are not credit organizarion to call collectors :)

__anynomous__ : Ok, I think we can move on to the next, first real agenda point:

>__ardocrat__ : Official request is cool idea, but this is internet.. We are not credit organizarion to call collectors :)

Yes, we cannot enforce, basically he can ignore but at the cost of his reputation. But an official request by the CC and the community holds more weight than from any single member.


## 1) Proposal of CC funds to be used as Bounties for completed work, made by any member of the community; approval by CC members.

__dtavarez__ : @ardocrat would you mind to go in deep here? or in a forum post explaining the pros and cons

__anynomous__ : Yes, we can discuss this more on the forum.

__ardocrat__ : I think @cekickafa can manage this part. As for me CC Fund was initially created to support bounties, but switched later to support funding requests

ðŸ‘ cekickafa

__anynomous__ : Can you eleborate why you think this would be good @ardocrat

__dtavarez__ : 

>__ardocrat__ : I think @cekickafa can manage this part. As for me CC Fund was initially created to support bounties, but switched later to support funding requests

I would suggest to search in the forum about this topic since it looks like this is a never ending subject.

__cekickafa__ : if Bounties work for '' Coinswap Mwixnet'' or python wrapper. It would work for certain tasks.

__ardocrat__ :

>__anynomous__ : Can you eleborate why you think this would be good @ardocrat

As I said later to increase trust. We can not be sure member will disappear or drop his work after funding

__anynomous__ : Not really, historically there were first only funding requests, bounties were later discussed as an alternative with as objective to pull in more developers (did not really work that well, a few cases), for specific task that are well defined and suited for bounties.

ðŸ‘ dtavarez

__dtavarez__ : I would love to participate in that conversation in the forum


__anynomous__ : So I would not say bounties are a good replacement for funding requests. The OC even opted for something like a long term agreement with @yeastplume instead of a Funding Request.

__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ : Not really, historically there were first only funding requests, bounties were later discussed as an alternative with as objective to pull in more developers (did not really work that well, a few cases), for specific task that are well defined and suited for bounties.

I dont see problem here, @dtavarez can ask to fund his Nostr Grin++ development let's say. Same for every other feature.

__cekickafa__ : @yeastplume is an exception. He has serious 6 year record.

__ardocrat__ : 

>__cekickafa__ : @yeastplume is an exception. He has serious 6 year record.

He is not using CC fund as I understood

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, anonymous, defistaker

__anynomous__ : Yes, and I think you hit a keyword here, reputation/a good record

ðŸ‘ cekickafa

__dtavarez__ : like @anynomous said, devs were funded after a while

__anynomous__ : So, I think for new developers, Ground Keepers and other contributors, it is fair to ask for payment upon delivery.

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, ardocrat.

__cekickafa__ : yes, he is known with reputation and skills. And his work is transparent at github.

__dtavarez__ : I would say that people tend to focus only on the negative things and invest more energy in dramas; the same people who complain that "grin looks dead" are the same people who wouldn't support the role of GK but without GK we will have given the haters reason to hate because we would be in the position where Grin would look dead
GK is an active role as well as dev

__ardocrat__ : 

>__cekickafa__ : yes, he is known with reputation and skills. And his work is transparent at github.

People can work at private repos for sure, he is core dev, so his work is transparent

__dtavarez__ : also then we will need to define clearly how the work will be reviewed and have people committed to do it

__cekickafa__ : What i mean is you cant compare other contributors with yeastplume as an example.


__anynomous__ : In general, I think the whole bounty versus Funding Requests requires more discussion, and linking back to old discussions (my god, did we discuss this topic in detail in the past, so many timesðŸ˜…)

__dtavarez__ : I think it would be healthy to have a long discussion about it and the forum seems to me the right place to do it

ðŸ’¯  anonymous

__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ : In general, I think the whole bounty versus Funding Requests requires more discussion, and linking back to old discussions (my god, did we discuss this topic in detail in the past, so many timesðŸ˜…)

Maybe it worked in the past, but I can see times changed, funded work is not bringing results as it was before.

__dtavarez__ :

>__ardocrat__ : Maybe it worked in the past, but I can see times changed, funded work is not bringing results as it was before.

I'm not sure about that.

__anynomous__ : Neither systems work perfect, so it is in the end about choosing the right system for the right task and for the right person.

__dtavarez__ : I think @cekickafa has been delivering for example. @defistaker also did delivery

__ardocrat__ : 

>__dtavarez__ : I think @cekickafa has been delivering for example. @defistaker also did delivery

Yes, but what about others? Can we take your work as example?

__dtavarez__ : 

>__ardocrat__ : Yes, but what about others? Can we take your work as example?

yes, please. my contributions are open to be discussed

ðŸ‘  ardocrat

__anynomous__ : Yes, it work for the most part, this is the first time I would say we are having major issues, although @jankie1800 did not completed all tasks for his last funding request.

__ardocrat__ : 

>__dtavarez__ :  yes, please. my contributions are open to be discussed

Your Github page is open, everybody can see indeed.

__yeastplume__ : 

>__anynomous__ : So I would not say bounties are a good replacement for funding requests. The OC even opted for something like a long term agreement with @yeastplume instead of a Funding Request.

For the current arrangement, I was billing for the previous month's work and getting paid monthly on that basis for a while, the only reason I get some pay up-front now is that it's less annoying to convene for signatures once every 3 months than once a month.

__dtavarez__ :


>__ardocrat__ : Your Github page is open, everybody can see indeed.

here's a summary https://forum.grin.mw/t/davidtavarez-contributions-summary-logs/10474

Grin++ Desktop UI 1 Main Developer & Maintainer.

Additions: 58,015
Deletions: 36,469
Technology: Typescript + React + Electron
Grin++ Mobile UI 1 Main Developer & Maintainer.

Additions: 40,179
Deletions: 13,126
Technology: C# + Xamarin
Grin++ CLI + Nostr (WIP) 2 Main Developer & Maintainer.

Additions: 2,460
Deletions: 3,306
Technology: Python
Grin++ Node/Wallet 2 Maintainer & Developer.

Additions: 806,553
Deletions: 1,345
Technology: C++


__anynomous__ :

>__yeastplume__ : For the current arrangement, I was billing for the previous month's work and getting paid monthly on that basis for a while, the only reason I get some pay up-front now is that it's less annoying to convene for signatures once every 3 months than once a month.

A, understandable. So basically it was also payment upon delivery.

__yeastplume__ : if we were hiring anyone else (who wasn't a core dev with a track record), we would agree payment and the work required, but not pay out until work has evidently been done

ðŸ‘ cekickafa, anonymous, angler1, ardocrat

__ardocrat__ :

>__dtavarez__ : here's a summary https://forum.grin.mw/t/davidtavarez-contributions-summary-logs/10474

As I said before past work is not counting, lets discuss current progress, from January to April.

__dtavarez__ :

>__ardocrat__ : As I said before past work is not counting, lets discuss current progress, from January to April.

sure, here you have https://forum.grin.mw/t/grin-recent-development-updates-and-nostr/10449

the code is not safe to use yet as I said before and is under too heavy development still not need to push it or merge it

__anynomous__ : Is the API part done/ready to use, not talking about NOSTR?

__ardocrat__ : So.. I suggest you to create bounty Nostr Grin++ and get paid after this work will be done, I think it will be fair for all

__dtavarez__ :

>__anynomous__ : Is the API part done/ready to use, not talking about NOSTR?

CLI is using new APIs yes; also I am introducing more changes to include Nostr too.

__ardocrat__ : Dev work progress can be tracked from code, so any community member can check and be sure.

__dtavarez__ : who? point someone please

__defistaker__ : I can not check but, would like to examine code for curiosity

__dtavarez__ : I am more than tired of this: "anyone could do it" while no one jump in

__defistaker__ : https://github.com/GrinPlusPlus/GrinPlusPlus/commits/master

__ardocrat__ :

>__dtavarez__ : who?

Anyone who has internet access :)

__dtavarez__ : who?

__defistaker__ : @dtavarez, on which branch is it commited?

__dtavarez__ : I closed the PR and switch approach, not yet pushes

>__ardocrat__ :Anyone who has internet access :)

but who? because if one say: "payment will be done after review" you must have clear who will make the review
so who ? who will make the commitment of going through the code and make the review of not just my work but others work

__ardocrat__ : 

>__dtavarez__ : but who? because if one say: "payment will be done after review" you must have clear who will make the review
so who ? who will make the commitment of going through the code and make the review of not just my work but others work

CC and community members to get feedback, testing can have a period.

__dtavarez__ : my god.

__anynomous__ : That is the problem with having few devs around, few/no people find time to look in detail.

__ardocrat__ :  Bounty will be closed with approval from CC members

__anynomous__ : But we still would require people with knowledge and time to look and review

__dtavarez__ : suggesting that everything must be a bounty without having no one responsable of reviewing nothing  is not just irresponsable but disrespectful

__anynomous__ : I am not volunteering ðŸ˜›

__dtavarez__ : and the picking someone able to do it. who

__anynomous__ : The idea itself is not bad, this was how it was done in the past since there were multiple devs on payrol but the reality is at the moment we do not have the manpower

__vegycslol__ : 

>__ardocrat__ : CC and community members to get feedback, testing can have a period.

that's in theory, the reality is that we are lacking manpower to actually do that. It would also make sense to pay the guy who would be performing checks (it's a lot of work). Then since he's paid someone would have to verify that he's actually doing a good job. And we have a problem  :)

__ardocrat__ :

>__anynomous__ : That is the problem with having few devs around, few/no people find time to look in detail.

Lets fix this, we can involve more people from community to get feedbacks from such bounties, @cekickafa is one of them, thus he is not developer.

__defistaker__ : @dtavarez, there is no need to review full code, anyone can test new api endpoints from a client, if they are implemented and available to public for example.
You just need to list new api endpoints available, I don't think this being disrespectful

__ardocrat__ : 

>__defistaker__ : @dtavarez, there is no need to review full code, anyone can test new api endpoints from a client, if they are implemented and available to public for example.
You just need to list new api endpoints available, I don't think this being disrespectful

Exactly

__dtavarez__ : 

>__defistaker__ : @dtavarez, there is no need to review full code, anyone can test new api endpoints from a client, if they are implemented and available to public for example.
You just need to list new api endpoints available, I don't think this being disrespectful

exactly.and that's why the CLI was added

__defistaker__ : So there is CLI but no documentation for it, correct?

__dtavarez__ : No.

__vegycslol__ : 

>__defistaker__ : @dtavarez, there is no need to review full code, anyone can test new api endpoints from a client, if they are implemented and available to public for example.
You just need to list new api endpoints available, I don't think this being disrespectful

that might be ok for checking work of some reputable member like tavarez. For some random people you would actually need to check the code, because there might be intentional bad things which you would only spot by carefully checking the code

ðŸ‘  anonymous

__cekickafa__ : Before review, i would question the'' deliverables '' in the name of community.

__anynomous__ : Yep, we need to be a bit more strict in checking deliverables in general

ðŸ’¯ cekickafa

__ardocrat__ : 

>__vegycslol__ : that might be ok for checking work of some reputable member like tavarez. For some random people you would actually need to check the code, because there might be intentional bad things which you would only spot by carefully checking the code

Sure it will take some time, we can not just give money to random people at same way :)

__cekickafa__ : And i will expose it openly in community.

__anynomous__ : Yes, review and feedback can be done in the Funding Request thread as well as on Github

ðŸ‘ ardocrat

But still, we need to have such tasks assigned, or it will be left hanging. I mean, I love the idea of the Client and the new API, but not time to test or check deliverables

__dtavarez__ : btw Grin++ is reviewed before merging into master :) not big deal just letting people know

__anynomous__ : You ask @dburkett to review before merger, right?

__dtavarez__ :

>__anynomous__ : You ask @dburkett to review before merger, right? 

when is needed, yes and he very kindly responds when he has time

__anynomous__ : But still, he does not check deliverables, so that is up to the community. So is the client code ready to be reviewed/tested by community members?

__dtavarez__ : I never release code that:

I never release code that:
- doesn't work.
- does not respect the framework.
- is not secure.
- I don't feel comfortable with it.
- introduces some important change without being reviewed.
if I work on something I will not rush it to please anyone and I will not work on something that I don't enjoy neither

__vegycslol__ : 'i never release code that doesn't work' --> why are there bugfixes then? :D hehe joking ofc

dtavarezðŸ˜Š

__dtavarez__ : True

__defistaker__ : I think one can keep new feature codes in a separate branch, only commit reviewed changes to master or a protected branch, git allows to do that

ðŸ‘ anonymous

__dtavarez__ : it doesn't work like that, manonly works if you have a team. there is not team behind what I do

__anynomous__ : Ok, so I understand it is not ready to review, correct?

__dtavarez__ : is not ready.if it is not ready I'm not pushing it.why would I have to?

__anynomous__ : That is fine, no problem, it just should be clear that that deliverable has not been finished yet.

__dtavarez__ : I only push code that I am able to defend

ðŸ‘ anonymous

if I don't feel comfortable with it, I don't push it. waste of everyone's time

__anynomous__ : Ok, I think we are digressing from the main topic. We can move on to funding request discussions.

__dtavarez__ : and I am sure I am not willing to open the door to trolls who want to "judge" my work without even knowing how to code
not gonna happen.

__anynomous__ : Not judging, just testing if it does what it should do.

ðŸ‘ ardocrat

__ardocrat__ : 

>__dtavarez__ : waste of everyone's time

No no, its good view of progress, so nobody can said Grin is dead :)

__anynomous__ : For me personally, as I stated before on the forum, I want to be more frugal with the CC funds, so I want wide community support to endorse funding requests, at the moment I think we lack feedback from the community on both requests. What are the opinions from community members present here on these specific funding requests or in general?

__dtavarez__ :


>__ardocrat__ : No no, its good view of progress, so nobody can said Grin is dead :)

do you know how to code? or work as a software engineer in development or how many years of experience writing code do you have?

__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ : For me personally, as I stated before on the forum, I want to be more frugal with the CC funds, so I want wide community support to endorse funding requests, at the moment I think we lack feedback from the community on both requests. What are the opinions from community members present here on these specific funding requests or in general?

We can not see results from January-April funding requests, so I see no reasons to keep this type of funding, my suggestion is to switch to bounties and pay only for already done work.

ðŸ‘syntajax

__anynomous__ : Ok, noted. We did see some nice progress in screenshot, but ya, we cannot validate/test

__dtavarez__ : all questions have already been answered several times and I had explicitly asked for feedback before, as I have always done and always do... why this meeting is more focus on me? I didn't know I was so important

__ardocrat__ :  

>__dtavarez__ : how many years of experience writing code do you have?

I worked 5 years at big corporarion, later startups only and yes, we committed our work everyday.

__dtavarez__ : 

>__ardocrat__ : I worked 5 years at big corporarion, later startups only and yes, we committed our work everyday.

that wasn't the question you didn't answer. do not waste my time if you have no clue what are you talking about. i have a life


__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__  Ok, noted. We did see some nice progress in screenshot, but ya, we cannot validate/test

Community can test binaries to give feedback as we have cases how it worked.

>__dtavarez__ : i have a life

Get a life then

__dtavarez__ : I recommend you to get a life

__anynomous__ : Guys, lets cool down and not make this personal

ðŸ‘ ardocrat, cekickafa

Everyone is free to have an opinion. I think for the moment we are running in overtime and the other community members have left, so I think it is hard to go for a vote. We need to bump these funding requests and get some more discussion going on the forum.

__dtavarez__ : 

>__anynomous__ : Everyone is free to have an opinion.

I find it suspicious that questions that I have already answered several times before are all brought to me at the same meeting. Just saying.
just that

__anynomous__ : I think it is just something that is in general 'hanging in the air', that people are feeling or considering if we need to change the system. 
This is so funny, because it always repeats, no matter what system we have, these kind of discussion always pop-up once every year or so ðŸ˜›

ðŸ‘ ardocrat

But that is not a bad thing, it allows us all to iterate, reflect and make incremental changes and improvements on how governance is done.

__dtavarez__ : because people are generally toxic behind a keyword no matter the system

__anynomous__ : In this case, as single full time developer working for the CC/community, you are taken as example. But it is in general a reflection if we are doing proper reviewing, checking of deliverables, should we pay afterwards etc.

ðŸ‘ ardocrat

__ardocrat__ : 

>__anynomous__ : In this case, as single full time developer working for the CC/community, you are taken as example. But it is in general a reflection if we are doing proper reviewing, checking of deliverables, should we pay afterwards etc.

I can see only @yeastplume as full time developer here :)

__anynomous__ : Yeastplume is working full time for OC, David is effectively working full time for CC/Community, based on individual funding requests

__dtavarez__ : I have very little interest to none in dealing with anyone's daddy issues reflected in toxicity, please keep me out of it.

__anynomous__ : Ok, I am signing of for today. I think we can move all (civil) discussions to the forum. Lets keep those objective, not on the person, but on the system.
Bye all (meeting closed)



## *TO DO List*

* Gk @satoshocrat refund request on forum page for missing GK tasks funded Jan-Apr 2023.

* Feedback from community for request for funding @cekickafa May-Aug 2023 & funding request @dtavarez May-Aug 2023



**Meeting adjourned.**



